# Smart-Level-Crossing-System-using-IoT and CV

INTRODUCTION

Everyone loves travelling, especially travelling by train. Railways also doing good in their services. At one end railways good at their services and the other end level crossing accidents increasing day by day. There was a rapid increase in level crossing accidents from 1408 in 2018 to 1788 in 2019 all over the world. In India level crossing accidents increased from 176 in 2002 to 1700 in 2022. International Union of Railways (UIC) published a report 90% of Railway accident is only by level crossing accidents in 2021. International Level Crossing Awareness Day (ILCAD) takes place annually on 9th June every year, on this day an initiative for creating awareness for safety in level crossing around 50 countries participate in the event with different types of level crossing safety projects are shared with the prime objective of reducing accidents in level crossing worldwide. This study aims to improve the level crossing safety for both trains and pedestrians. In India, 90% of the trains are Electric trains, and 10% of the trains are Diesel trains. Ministry of Railways reports that there are 18,477 level crossings in India, out of that, 17,918 are manned level crossings, and 559 are unmanned level crossings. This project consists of a four-gateway system, two on the left side and the other two on the right side of the level crossing.


ABSTRACT

The ultrasonic sensor, microwave sensor, load sensor, and sound sensor are placed on both sides of the track, AI-powered cameras are placed on the arch, and the arch is placed over the railway tracks. These sensors sense the train's arrival in manned and unmanned level crossing. "The Desert Queen" express train passes through Unmanned level crossing places like Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Jaipur. Once sensors detect the arrival of the train in detection zone, the traffic light turns "RED" and railway light turns "GREEN" and the level crossing gates will be closed. When the gates get closed, if any object like human beings, animals, or heavy vehicles gets stuck between the tracks or level crossing gates, the ultrasonic sensor and AI cameras placed on the level crossing gates, senses the object, and the gate before the object is opened to make the object move out. In case the object is not able to move. the information is passed to the Loco pilot through GSM module SIM800L as phone calls or messages to stop the train in order to avoid level crossing accidents, and live location is shared with nearby hospitals, fire service, and recovery teams through GPS module. The arrival of train is detected before 7km distance of level crossing because in India, trains travel at a speed of 80kmph to 120kmph to stop the train before 2km of level crossing. If any object is detected between the tracks or gates, The information is passed to the station master to stop or delay the departure of the trains that comes and goes along the same track to avoid train collision and derailment, unlike the “COROMANDEL” Express train accident. The train leaves the level crossing safely and successfully if no object is detected between the tracks or level crossing gates. Once the train leaves the level crossing, the traffic light turns "GREEN" and railway light turns "RED" and the level crossing gates will be opened.

Keywords- Arduino mega 2560, ultrasonic sensor, sound sensor, load sensor, microwave sensor, AI camera, SIM800L, GPS sensor, wi-fi module, level crossing, Four- gateway system.  
